hey everybody and welcome to today's
episode of learning from the pros
joining me today is Davies he is the
founder of der digital and he's going to
be sharing his 10 tips around Google ads
and making it work for your SAS brand
welcome
Davies hey and thanks for having me I
hope these 10 tips are going to be U
useful I'm pumped why don't we just
start off with a quick background
yourself and what you do sure um I've
been working in Performance Marketing
and marer started in Google ads so I
worked like full-time for six years and
on the side I also freelanced and then
eventually as of like one and a half
years ago I decided it's time to create
an agency been an agency owner now for a
little bit over a year now um so I know
a thing or two about Google ads and and
paid in general nice that's awesome so
paid you know is like a topic near and
dear to everyone's Hearts here at
conversion and what we do best and
Google ads specifically in the SAS world
is arguably the most invested channel in
relation to other ones I know LinkedIn
is definitely getting more steam but
when you look at overall Investments by
budget search is typically still the
greatest so I'm sure the tips you're
going to share today are going to be
super helpful for everyone listening at
home so one don't you kick us off Davies
with your first tip perfect so the
number one tip is and I think
everybody's telling you that is quality
conversion tracking and what I mean is
that you don't only track form submits
but you ALS also incorporate something
called offline conversions so those are
usually what you track from in your CRM
so different lead stages basically right
so we all know that you can get a ton of
form fills but not all of them are going
to be of quality so what you need to do
is then whatever stages you have be mql
Sal opportunities try to upload it all
back to Google because first of all you
give Google more data points so it's
easier for Google to optimize and also
you can also so tell Google which
sessions which keywords are more
valuable so you can use either bids
maximize conversion strategy or maximize
conversion value if you set different
values for different con conversion
points so that's one number number one
for sure quality conversion tracking I
mean talk talk me through that a little
bit so feeding Google better signal to
better optimize for you getting everyone
so getting all of your life cycle stages
pushed into Google ads so it'll look a
little different for every company but
the idea is you want to make sure you
have that information in the platform so
then Google knows the difference between
a lead and mql and SQL right and then
more importantly you yourself can then
use that information to actually
optimize and and make the necessary
adjustments right exactly yes cool and
in terms of setting up quality
conversion tracking are there any like
kick UPS you see Brands run into in
terms of like preventing them from doing
that I think the biggest one is
Salesforce so hopspot has like really
easy integration I think it's it's
trickier when you have Salesforce
because then you you need to like put
time stamps on different stages so if
you have an mql you need to you need to
do some orchestration on Salesforce I
personally like don't know how
technically do that I just don't I just
know that it need to happen so then I
basically instruct the revup themes of
our clients okay please put time stamps
on these uh on on on these mql and also
include the GID IDs because you need GID
IDs associated with the conversion to be
able to upload so with hopspot it's less
kind of an issue it's more that with
with Salesforce um in some cases like we
can't even maybe automate that with
hopspot is just directly there thinking
done um so it it might involve also
manual uploads and who wants to do that
who can remember doing that so I think
that's the issue and Frankly Speaking
some even don't know that you can do
that yeah yeah 100% it's like for
everyone listening this is where
marketing operations sport is going to
be really helpful if you are a lean
Scrappy team and you're like hey I don't
have a mops person I'm a you know onep
person marketing manager doing
everything and I've got to do this now
as well just recommend going to upwork
and just finding someone there's a ton
of people out there that you can find on
upwork relatively affordably and they
know how to do this stuff with their
eyes closed and on the on the technical
side it's it's pretty straightforward
like the the biggest thing is just
capturing the Google click ID like
Davies is talking about so if you're
using HubSpot HubSpot does it
automatically with their pixel and then
using HubSpot forms to automatically
capture the click ID and then push it
through HubSpot and then you can set up
the events if you're not as fortunate
and you're using Salesforce then you
have to replicate that process manually
so essentially you can go on upwork and
you can find a developer that can
install a JavaScript through Google tag
manager that can capture the click ID
and then pass it through your hidden
fields for whatever form you're using
and then pass it into your CRM so it's
just an extra step and you're going to
get that JavaScript created by the
developer but you can do it relatively
cheap if you go to upw and find some but
100% I totally agree with you like
quality conversion tracking is like the
one step that everyone hears and they
know they need to do but most them
actually do it yeah exactly and also you
can do a bunch of interesting things
then I mean depending on how much volume
you get maybe you can then eliminate
optimizing for form fills and then you
can start optimizing only starting from
mql stage so you give Google just better
kind of uh signals to optimize towards
instead of just form fills so there's
there's a bunch of things you can play
around with and if you're fortunate
enough and you get a lot of Sals you can
upload you can uh optimize towards SS
right yeah 100% all right tip number
two tip number two is consolidation and
what I mean by that is you don't need to
have 20 campaigns and you don't need to
have 300 ad groups and have thousands of
keywords um and mainly because
especially in b to be we don't usually
get a lot of data points so when you
scatter that all around through on on
between between like multiple campaigns
it gets really hard for the algorithm to
optimize and also for you to keep track
of what's Happening into the account
besides we all know that Scag structure
is is long gone nobody's using that um
at least at least I think nobody's using
that anymore as we did like but a part
of like four or five years ago and also
exact match is not exact anymore so
there's no point in having the same
keyword in seven variations and you can
just have one and all of those
variations are going to be triggered
there anyways so I don't think it makes
sense to to overblow the complexity and
structure of of Google ads to be
honest this is a good one yeah 100%
agree with you and it's something
that personally I was reluctant to try
and then eventually I got on board I was
like okay because I you know definitely
like I come from like old school Google
ads where it's like you control
everything you give Google no choice you
you know it's like literally everything
you do yourself like you're setting bit
adjustments like you know just complete
control but you're absolutely right like
nowadays it's not so much anymore about
the campaign structure side of things
and like having like
seven thousand variations of campaigns
for the same keyword it's it's more so
about having fewer campaigns that are
more impactful and then having as many
quality conversion signals by Camp
campaign so then now you can leverage
automated bidding and take advantage of
all that conversion track you're um
taking advantage of and then also just
makes your life easier like you talked
about right on the account management
side if you have 20 campaigns to manage
versus 200 it's it's going to make a big
difference on the dayto day yeah I mean
trust me I come my first job was at
Mondo and we had hundreds of campaigns
and when kayak acquired Mondo we started
to create single keyword campaigns not
even single keyword ad groups so can you
how many camps we had it's insane so I
come from that background where we
wanted to control everything so um I was
reluctant at first as well to like
consolidate more because again to your
point I also wanted to control
everything but
unfortunately we are losing the control
right anyways so let's work with Google
not against to certain extent it's
interesting to see how like over the
years it's kind of played out you know
and it's it's getting more and more and
more it's like I wouldn't be surprised
if one day it's just performance Mac and
that's it like you have I hope not I
mean I hope not I hope not too but like
that's that's like the trend you know
like Fast Forward I don't know five
years from now yeah if Google just says
one day they're like hey you know like I
remember like it was yesterday with
broad match modifier remember like we're
sunsetting broad match modifier and then
they they moved us to like towards the
the exact phrase and then it's the full
Broad and and to your point like exact
is not even exact
so you're you're trying to bid on this
one keyword here and you think you're
showing up for CRM software as exact
match and you're really showing up for
something completely unrelated yeah
great exactly that is very annoying I'll
be I'll be
honest yeah 100% 100% check your search
sech report people yeah all right tip
number
three which leads us to what we just
talked about is exclusions so no exact
is not exact anymore and like it's weird
but I start to think that exclusions now
are more valuable or more important than
inclusions so instead of like trying to
add like hundreds of keywords think of
ways how you can exclude hundreds of
keywords because the these variations
are going to be triggered all the time
even like there are some subtle things
for example there's a company who has a
tool and there some of the keywords are
that I bid on are customer uh Journey
tracking which is relevant but it
triggers customer Journey mapping and
that for some reason is not there are
nuances even on that level and it's
exact match so you need to keep track on
on what are the Search terms that you
are showing up on and the downside is
also that Google still hides a lot of
Search terms right that makes it a bit
harder to exclude but um I know there
are scripts out there somewhere on
LinkedIn where people are creating like
these these complex scripts that you can
Implement that basically sends you on
slack uh like based on engrams uh We've
noticed this pattern these kind of terms
Search terms or containing this specific
word has never converted in the last six
months then you can assume that you
could technically exclude all of these
uh from your Search terms but it always
is really like Nuance because in in
longer sales cycles and and big B2B
accounts you can't really exclude just
based on no conversions because they
still can be very relevant and it takes
only one opportunity to make that all
cost Mak sense uh right but overall yeah
exclusions need to be on top of it yeah
Pro tip on this tip here is for everyone
listening just go to Google ads go to
the reporting section and then create a
Search terms report and schedule it to
whoever needs to see it and it's like an
easy free way for you to just get access
and visibility into the Search terms
that are coming through in your account
and then you can get it emailed to you
every every week on a Monday whatever
your Cadence is and then you can just
see what's coming through so if there
are certain things you're like hey we
shouldn't be spending money on that this
is a good tip too if you have like an
agency or somebody else managing your
ads and you want more visibility on on
how everything looks to give you that
that foresight all right tip number
four I think this is an obvious one um
so I'm not going to talk a lot about it
but you should have fast and relevant
landing pages I will start with the fast
one fast well Google's basically going
to damage your quality score if you
don't have a fast website that's that's
just obvious and then relevancy or or is
basically
if if you split out the campaigns on
different with different ad groups you
should try to get the landing page of
that ad group to be as closely tied to
the keyword that you have in that ad
group for obvious reasons of course uh
because High relevance High conversion
rates and also Google will like you more
as well in terms of quality score not
everybody can create multiple landing
pages and that's that is what it is but
you also can you don't need to over
complicate it so what we've told also
some of our client es especially when
they start out they say oh it's going to
take us a long time to develop these
land extra landing pages and I just tell
them just change the hero kind of
section keep everything else as is um
for example and we can just duplicate if
it's in WordPress or whatever other CMS
just duplicate the page and we can just
adjust the hero uh hero section and
that's it we don't need to really over
complicate it at least at the start and
then you can start playing around if and
on on highest volume Landing Pages
because again if you follow PTO it's
like 8020 principle right you should try
to adjust the ones that you get the most
volume and and conversions then you can
start to play around a little bit more
and do kind of micro adjustments so to
speak uh but as a start fast and
relevant landing pages is is something
that you should definitely
do I think that's a great tip and
something everyone should take seriously
because we do have a tendency to
overanalyze and you know you want to
have everything perfect from the start
and like just reminding yourself hey
like what's can you just take what you
already have today duplicate it make
variations to the content so it's very
you know just make the message match a
little bit better above the fold in the
hero section and you know match better
with the campaigns and then it's like
you know it's not ideal but it's better
than what you had before and then you
can at least that's like a starting
point and then you know you can kind of
move on from there now you have some
data to your point like right now you
can lean in based on the 8020 and versus
just your assumptions now you know which
landing pages are generating uh majority
of the conversions that you can work on
or vice versa or the ones that are
getting the majority of the clicks that
you should work on and then kind of
prioritize your
efforts yeah exactly especially the 8020
run right I mean you don't even know yet
before you launch what is going to get
volume so over complicating it and
perfecting the landing pages that maybe
nobody's going to ever see because
nobody's going to click on those ads
nobody's going to search for those terms
so um yeah definitely just get something
out there
all right tip number
five um yeah and that kind of ties back
to what we saw at the beginning
basically leveraging smart bidding um
and that is about what we talk that we
are kind of giving away our control
because um I I know still there are a
lot of kind of managers who want to do
manual bidding thinking that they can do
better adjustments on a daily basis but
do they really I mean I think it's
really hard if you think about it like
there are multiple levels that goes into
the auction your Geo your device in
Market whatever like there's so many
things that you can do adjustments on
it's not just the CPC be that you can
adjust and or create rules I mean we
could debate if is if Google is really
taking all that into account I want to
believe they do and in general I just
think smart Bing is going to do a way
better job than if we're going to try to
do it manually I know that there are
instances where you simply don't get the
conversion volume so you can't really
leverage smart bidding those would be
the only exceptions but that also would
mean that you have relatively little
budget because if you cannot get
conversions in why would you spend 50k a
month on it um so that that would be
kind of an exception what what's your
take I I agree with you I think one area
that is interesting is on the conversion
volume I'm curious your experience with
this I know Google has recommendations
of like 15 to 30 conversions a month for
campaign ideally for for leveraging
automated bidding and smart bidding do
you have in your experience like do you
have a threshold of you know let's say
you're starting a new campaign and a new
account and you're starting from zero
are you confident enough in the
automated bidding where you'll start
with something like Max conversions or
Target CPA or you will you kind of ease
into it with something
else if I start out I usually try to do
either manual or Max CPC yeah maximum
clicks sorry which basically is going to
inflate like the traffic quite a lot and
it's not going to convert that well but
it's going to give me some sort of like
Benchmark sort of threshold to
understand where is the volume in which
campaigns which keywords what I need to
adjust and if there is the potential for
conversions so I can I can also then
eliminate some of the things that I see
okay these keywords are really getting a
lot of volume but I could already tell
that maybe the intent is not there
really and maybe they're not GNA convert
that well so I can immediately do some
adjustments there and then I switch to
maximum conversions because I think if
you start with maximum conversions and
I've done that in the past as well there
there is a chance where if it doesn't
get the conversions in a few first few
days it might also die off I've
experienced that as well which doesn't
really happen that often but but I've
seen that so if you just start out I
would try manual or Max clicks and then
switch whenever you get those first
conversions in now my threshold for
conversions I also agree that there
needs to be like what what Google said
like 30 and whatever it's great to have
but like in B2B very often I see less
and then I'm like okay 10 is good enough
for maximized conversions depending on
how many campaigns you have as well
obviously if you can have it on campaign
level 10 in campaign level I think in
some cases that's already good
especially if I go offer like if I have
an Enterprise client 10 per week would
be good uh to be honest and then I would
still try to leverage maximize
conversions and also you could do it on
a portfolio level so then portfolio
would then learn on all the campaigns
not individually so that might help as
well if you still need to split the
campaigns because budget wise right if
you target the whole world you would
want to split out North America emia
Australia whatever right and one is for
mainly for Budget reasons but also
because the cpcs vary per region a lot
um and also I would assume deal sizes so
there are new there are there are
reasons why why why you do the splits um
as well regionally yeah but um hard to
say the threshold it's uh nuanced I
totally agree with your thinking it's
it's tough and like that's why I was
generally curious because like on on in
my experience as well and well the test
that we ran there is no real number it's
so subjective like for example we have
some campaigns that but generally
speaking like if you're running on a
brand new campaign and it has zero
conversions the safest way to start is
exactly that it's like Max clicks with a
bid cap or manual CPC and then you kind
of staircase you get some volume and
then you you make the switch with a
50/50 campaign experiment if you want to
be really conservative if not you just
roll out the change and that's been true
for us as well but it's been interesting
because like the challenge with max
conversion bidding is sometimes if you
do it too soon it'll just destroy your
cpcs like like I have seen Google set
the cost for click from like $30 to like
125 a click and it's just painful you
know it's really pain painful but on the
flip side you know there are often times
too where it does extremely well you
know and and it it drives more volume so
there is something too smart bidding
like we have a client recently where
they were struggling with volume and it
was a constant challenge like every day
it was like Hey guys like we hit we had
two leads today how do we get to five
and it was like that was like our daily
Target and we were constant like you
know it was like that uh that internal
Challenge and for us what did it was
switching towards max conversion value
bidding like that did it like there was
something to it you know Google's
algorithm is like now actually a tune
they're trying to find people who have
more propensity to convert and making
that shift has been successful for us
and did allow us to drive more volume in
the account by just making the bid
strategy change but on the flip side
there's other clients where you try it
and it's like uh you know an atomic
bomb on the CBC
prices one way one one workr is uh that
you could do is do portfolio bidding
with a with a CPA and then you put a cap
on it on CPC cap but then if you want to
mimic the max conversion you need to set
really high CPA it's kind of like
tricking Google to thinking that you can
maximize it but you have this absurd
price per conversion that you can you
could reach potentially I in some cases
I've seen that to be successful in some
cases it's just stupidly reaches that
goal which is not great so then it over
spends a lot there's I've been long
enough into this to understand that
there's never one way that is always
going to work like every situation every
campaign every cide every region is
going to have different scenario so it's
kind of like you can have your best
practices but your best practices there
are actually like for the same situation
there are like 10 and now you need to
understand which best practice is gonna
work for
you yeah 100% 100% all right tip number
six I think everybody needs to chill out
with the responsive search ads for ad
group what I mean is that I seen
accounts when we do audits where they
literally are spending sub 10,000 per
month but every single ad group that
they have has three responsive search
ads think of how many combinations now
Google has to come up with that ideal ad
that's going to win the auction 45 what
is it like 12 description lines it's
infinite amount of combinations you're
not doing anything good for the Google
ads algorithm so I've seen B where all I
did is decrease like in in in in this is
in the bigger accounts where they're
spending like 70 plus thousand per month
I just went in and just started to pause
all the responsive search chats well not
all but just keeping one ctrs went up
and conversion rates increased it's just
it seemed like the Google algorithm was
not as confused anymore so it was
starting to work with yeah what it what
it has and making better combinations uh
so I think just people need to relax
have one maybe two if if you have a ton
of volume you can you can potentially
put three maybe there are occasional AG
group that has a ton of volume there you
can have one like two or maximum of
three no you canot go really more than
three but then you have other a groups
where that are getting maybe like 30
clicks per week just keep one responsive
there and I've seen cases where I even
started to think that if you don't have
enough volume you don't even need to
maximize 15 headlines um and I always
thought that you absolutely should
because it's best practice
but if you get I don't know 35 clicks a
week can it really figure out which
combinations work cuz if you look at the
when you look at the performance of
certain headlines in those smaller
accounts I sometimes see for months that
some of the headlines are not getting
Impressions and says learning so they
never they never get a chance to even
get in that variation so I'm even
starting to think that you should have
even in some cases less than
15 that's a really interesting tip I I
like that I don't think that's something
that's talked about often which I think
is a really solid tip and it's it's
interesting too because the the thing
that it got me thinking about as well uh
outside of that is especially with
Google ads like with paid social for the
most part most people are pretty aware
and they're cute in the sense the fact
that oh I need to be testing I need to
be pausing old ads I need to be rotating
new creatives in paid search it's like I
wrote that thing once six months ago and
I never looked at it again you know and
that's it and see Point like they'll
create as many variations possible
they'll like maximize the amount of
character counts all the variations of
headlines and position and then they'll
like check it off and then they walk
away and then they never think about
their ads again so there's definitely
something to that for sure that's a
that's a really good tip all right I
think we are now on tip number seven yes
also closely related to responsive
search ads Google ads doesn't like
pinning when you look at the like the
quality that I say if it's strong long
or or medium or whatever once you start
pinning the headlines it immediately
tells you it's not strong enough anymore
for some reason I don't know why Google
does that but we do like pinning because
we want to have some some some sort of
control of how the ad copy looks like I
basically try to divide in three parts
part one is your headline one will be
closely Rel related to your keyword if
you want to you can write different five
variations of of the keywords that are
in your uh ad group or you can also l
keyword insertion as well uh that
typically gets you an increase in CTR
harder to control especially when you
want to like capitalize some extra
letters so for example AI with keyboard
Insurgent it will capitalize the word
the the a but not I and it might look
weird so you need to need to see if it
makes sense in headlines two I tend to
put like unique selling points or social
proof or something else something a bit
different that is not as dry as your
keyword in the headline one one and then
headline 3 potentially could be either
your hom page or the the kind of company
name or CTA or even like the website all
right um and it can you can also try to
put maybe sometimes the CTA in headline
too but to be completely honest in when
I do the analysis of headlines ctas
always flop like when I have like book a
demo free something I it's always like
Google's pushing it down and the only
way we can analyze the performance is
based on how many Impressions they're
they're they're getting right
uh and I always see it at the bottom
that always gets least of the pr
impressions for some reason I don't know
why Google that it gets probably some
data points to see like when you have a
that CTA in the ad people don't click I
don't know I just I noticed this across
many accounts so I I I'm curious to see
if you've SE the opposite no I I agree
with your your thoughts too around
pinning 100% like we completely
disregard ad strength it has no bearing
on ad rank whatsoever it's just Google's
best practices on what they want you to
do but at the end of the day ad rank is
your max bid times quality score times
the expected impact of AD extensions as
ad rank is nowhere in that formula so I
would just tell people like rest easy
like don't don't freak out if you're
using Penning totally agree as well with
like the way you think about pinning we
we do the same thing like the goal of
headline one is just to answer and
provide like message match to like
whatever somebody's searching you know
so like you answer the what question
like what is this link about so you know
they're searching CRM software you have
CRM software in your headline one and
then uh headline two is to differentiate
yourself against everybody else in the
search results page so why you why
should I click on this link compared to
everyone else and then finally the
headline 3 is that CTA in my what I'm
noticing is the CTA the reason it's
getting the least Impressions is because
it's just not being shown and what I
mean by that is like Google's starting
to just show like the H1 position on its
own or the H1 and the H2 they're not
really pushing the H3 anymore as much
which is it's interesting like it used
to be H1 H2 H3 now I barely see the H3
ever and now it's always H1 H2 and then
oftentimes now I'm starting to see just
H1 which is which is interesting how
like they're kind of like condensing it
even more yeah they're putting the the
headline to in the description the
beginning of the descriptions that's
what I'm noticing it's not that they
just keep it as headline one they just
putting it down for some reason that's
that's that's weird yeah 100% so at the
end of the day uh they're going to show
your ads however you see fit and like if
you're not
pinning you're just increasing the
probability of like having elgibility
within your ads you know and and for
those of them like people listening that
they're like I want to have the benefit
of pinning but I also want to give
Google flexibility this is like where
pinning each position but having
multiple variations per position is
helpful so now Google has like two to
three variations of H1s two to three
variations of H2S and then I honestly
don't even bother with the H3 anymore
like now I just do one variation and
that's it because I just know it's not
going to be seen and I just spend like
90% of my time on the H1 and and like
10% of my time on the H2 and that's like
the 8020 in terms of like Google ads
headlines and you can have those
multiple variations per position so now
when Google is rotating your your
different positions figure out what work
they're doing it within this controlled
order so at the end of the day your ads
are still legible because ultimately
like that's the biggest mistake people
run into without pitting is their ads
become illegible it just doesn't make
sense like you're like redundant you're
repeating yourself you're like best CRM
software and like position one and then
position two is like the ultimate CRM
software I don't know like you it's like
okay you know you just wasted so much
context but yeah totally totally agree
this is a big one and I hope you will
take that seriously all right uh tip
number eight um a relatively small one
but I think that's something that people
shouldn't forget is don't forget about
device adjustments they they work with
smart bidding as well there are
adjustments that don't work I think it
was like audience and and some some
other ones that are not really working
with bid strategies if I'm not mistaken
at least it wasn't working in the past
but the bit the bid adjustments on
device level are still something that
smart bidding takes into account and
usually what happen happens is people
just decrease tablet in mobile devices
and you do that based on CPAs yes we can
go into all argument of but what if we
get a lot of quality for mobile or
whatnot are we I mean what are the what
are the chances it's it's you look at
the Blended CPA you you don't look at
per which conversion type you're getting
and often what I see is that you get to
decrease the the device adjustments
between like 30 to 50% in some cases
even 70 it's just that those those those
are not convert
um at the same Pace as desktop and I
think that's no surprise to anyone of
course some people might bring up that
yeah but what if they're researching on
the on the phone and then they're
converting on desktop from direct or
whatever it could be but we need to work
with the data that we have totally yeah
at the end of the day just see what your
data tells you and then and then decide
for yourself right and if you need to
like add a a negative bit adjustment on
a certain device you can but that's a
good point and I think people often
forget that is you have you have control
around where your ads can display on
which devices take advantage of it
especially if you have a product that's
like not mobile optimized your capture
process is pretty poor on mobile and
you're driving a lot of traffic there
it's like are you really setting
yourself up for success and then you can
make that choice for
yourself do you remember the days where
the com do you remember the days where
campaigns were split by device that's
Madness yeah I do 100% uh we we still do
them as well like but like on very very
very rare circumstances like uh for
example like we had one client where
they ran this whole campaign and it was
like a really unique landing page and it
was like this experience and it was on
mobile that they were running the
campaign so like little things like that
uh or like for another client of ours
what we did was we we captured the
device the device modifier through their
their Valley Track parameters and their
tracking template and then we could
report in the CRM like is mobile doing
better than desktop and so on and so
forth and in that client specific
example like mobile was actually
crushing it for them so we were like
okay and then the challenge was because
we had desktop and and Mobile in the
same campaign because the budget lives
at the campaign level Google was just
naturally pushing more budget towards
mobile and we wanted to make sure uh
that desktop was getting its fair share
so we we split it yeah but this is kind
of like where you're making these data
back decisions and like to your point
earlier it's like whatever your best
practice is it's like it's all
circumstantial depending on the account
and like contexts and everything you
know because like in those instances
like we're doing the obsolete thing you
know in like Google ads today but in
that instance it's like oh no this is
actually makes perfect sense you know
yeah all right that's exactly true all
right uh tip number
nine less of a tip more of a thing thing
to think about bid on a brand bid on
your own brand or not bid on your own
brand there's a lot of discussions
around this and I think the best way to
determine that is first are people
bidding on you and if the if the answer
is yes then you should probably protect
your brand of course and now a lot of
arguments come into play where if you
have an Enterprise level
product are you really going to lose the
client like potential kind of closed one
based on someone else beating on your
brand they're looking for you so they're
gonna of course look for you and click
organically
but what if not do you want to leave it
up to chance like to be honest and
speaking of like back back when I work
at Mondo like my only my biggest reason
I always try to put key brand is we in
in in in one of the markets one of the
biggest Revenue driver keyword was a
competitor term now fast forward two and
a half years we got acquired by that
company and their policy was not to bid
on brand and then we showed you hey guys
you lost this amount of money on us
because of us and it was your brand and
the policy changed so we started to
include brand terms across across the
world just to protect ourselves but it's
a bit different it's B Toc so there
people are easier to be swayed away to
convert on someone else uh right even
they even even though they search for
some other company there is still debate
on if if that's really happening on B2B
that being said I still see closed one
on our clients as well on competitor
terms meaning it does work so if it
works on my competitor campaigns it must
work on other competitor competitors as
well so um I would say try to try to bid
on your own terms just to protect
that yeah what's your approach quick I
I'm I'm you you and I are like 100% the
same page un quick like the way I think
about it at the end of the day is if I'm
torn so like I we have this one client
and this one client is I mean they're
spending they're massive like they have
like a 400k a month ad budget they're
like across like Global really big
account they're spending like six
figures on branded search and when we
first took over the campaign we like to
set benchmarks and thresholds for oursel
where we're like okay we don't want
ideally we don't want 20 more than 20%
of the overall accounts budget going
towards brand like we want to be
reaching net new prospects we want to be
on the offense like that's generally
like the motto we take but with this
account it was like 40ish per of their
budget was on branded church so that was
like a red flag for us so we talked to
them we're like hey guys like you're
probably overspending here and they told
us because they've been you know this is
like an established brand they've been
running at Forever they're like no no no
like we're telling you we're reaching
new people we're getting new trial
signups from Brand so what we did just
to validate this and also for like my
sanity was we ran a holdout study so in
their case they couldn't afford to not
run brand in the US so we B basically
did this like in some like less um
impactful GEOS like if there's
fluctuation in volume so what we did was
we turned off brand in those Goos and
then we monitored the amount of net new
trials coming through in that specific
region after pausing brand compared to
when it was on and then we we made the
like the comparison and in their case we
found brand was actually driving net new
acquisition we were losing new customers
by not having brand for having it so
when in doubt run a holdout study and
just figure it out for yourself and see
what the data tells you that's a good
approach for
sure awesome all right I know we are
coming up on time here so we've got uh
tip number
10 tip number 10 is reporting side
always report on brand versus non brand
when you when you when you report and
when you evaluate performance of Google
ads
it's clear and it's obvious that brand
campaigns are going to overperform
vastly uh compared to non-brand
campaigns so and it's it's it's it
happens also a lot on agencies where
they want to inflate their impact on on
the accounts so they blend it all
together so it looks like you're
generating a lot and I also had a client
that we work with and we started to see
these increases in in demos and whatnot
and I was like guys relax I I still need
to do like because it's Salesforce and
not I still need to do the separation
and I'm I'm going to then only tell you
if if it's actually if it's really me
that is driving it all because I would
say it's me only if it's from non brand
and exactly I mean there was an optic in
in non brand as well but the majority
share came from Brand meaning that
something else happened something else
was really good in their marketing mix
that started to drive people to search
for for their brand so I think that's a
big one to to always keep them separate
because it doesn't it's it's really not
Google ads that is doing the version on
on brand of course as you mentioned now
the you still can drive net new but in
general I like to separate them out
because it really skewes how much you
are investing because you cannot scale
brand like you cannot really scale them
it's not like okay what if we're going
to invest now two times more well if if
if you are if you are having like a huge
share of your inbounds from Brand you
will invest two two times more you're
definitely not going to get two times
more conversions or two times more form
shells because cannot the brand is not
going to scale we can scale non brand to
certain extent as well so um yeah always
try to separate that not try just do
that always separate them out when
youate
performance a th% agree brand non brand
competitive DSA rlsa like all these
different themes split it because and I
recommend like like everything should be
looked at a different lens you know and
when you have massive Global campaigns
like like big large accounts where
you're running in multiple regions and
it's like you just have too many active
campaigns this is where that that
segmentation by theme is really helpful
because now you can report at theme
level so for example I might have 20
brand campaigns I might have uh 50
non-brand campaigns 40 competitive
campaigns instead of now like first
reporting at the individual campaign
level which going to take forever I can
report at theme level and I can monitor
my my progression of my performance by
the theme and then I can double click so
I can be like overall non-brand is at X
brand is at y compartive as at Z and
then if you have a segmentation by
region you add that filter and then you
can like kind of drill into it to your
point right because like it's just
completely it's like apples oranges and
bananas like they're not yeah they're
not the same
thing exactly never said okay so we just
wrapped tip number 10 uh Davies I think
you've got a Bonus tip for everybody yes
it's something that makes sense to look
at uh when you target like Europe as a
whole so it's about location uh location
targeting location tracking and
Reporting so often what happens is you
target like the whole Amia and there's a
bunch of countries there um and it in in
a lot of cases like some of those
countries are eating a lot of budget so
especially when the cpcs are different
so if you target Nord Dixon and duck
region and UK all together naturally UK
duck and and nordics have higher cpcs
than South Europe so France Italy Spain
um and what happens is of course
depending on on on the whole volume but
what happens is Google search to buy way
more of that like South European traffic
which is in a lot of cases not
converting that well but maybe there is
maybe they are it could be that maybe
nobody's converting to nordics or maybe
nobody's converting into duck what I'm
trying to say is don't ignore the
countries within the campaigns and and
try to evaluate the spend and and look
at what's what's happening not only on
lead conversion but was happening
throughout the the journey what we what
we recently did for one of our CL
clients we actually cut out all of the
Europe and only kept UK because some of
them like a lot of these countries were
generating like form submits but when we
looked at the past like 18 months none
of them were a client nobody converting
to be a client so why should we invest
and we ended up saving quite a lot of
money on that so that's just a
additional tip
here that's awesome everybody if you
guys haven't gotten value I I know if
you've been listening to this episode
just to do a quick recap of all the tips
that Davis has shared today number one
is quality conversion tracking making
sure that you're feeding the the machine
the signals as much as you can based on
your life cycle stages Pro tip go to upw
work Outsource it like it's got to get
done it's just one of those things you
have to check off the list but it's it's
well worth checking off number two is
consolidation I love this like you
cannot like there's no it's not
necessary to have a thousand variations
of campaigns uh unless there's like some
extrem like extenuating circumstance but
generally speaking consolidation is the
way to go number three was all run
exclusions make sure you're checking
that Search terms report you're
excluding all of the junk uh that is
coming through especially now that like
dav's talked about exact it's not exact
tip number four is fast and relevant
landing pages and just getting started
with like an MVP so instead of stressing
overanalyzing like what's what are you
doing right now and then how can you
just duplicate that existing page make
some modifications to it so you have a
start point and then based on the 8020
rule you're able to make your
adaptations and adjust as you need to
tip number five was to go ahead and
leverage smart bidding as much as
possible I think we had like a little
mini podcast just on this tip around
like different ways and like there was
tons of like nuggets around like if you
have conversion constraints you can use
portfolio bid strategies uh we talked
about like using Target TPA caps all
that definitely worth uh a relisten just
on tip number five tip number six was to
chill out with the amount of rsas ad
group this was a really good one uh one
that I haven't thought about too and
this is all around uh making sure you
have enough volume of testing based on
the variations of ads tip number seven
was all around pinning and doing the 3X3
method so making sure you have different
things depending on the different
positions so position one that you're
really focusing on matching search
intent with the keyword that's related
to what's being appeared keyword uh
position number two is all around the
USB and then position three is the CTA
tip number eight was all around don't
forget device adjustments depending on
your uh depending on your circumstances
it might make sense to use device
adjustments so go ahead and use that tip
number nine was to consider for yourself
if you should bid on brand or non-brand
and we also talked about potentially
running out like a a holdout study or
can mentality study on certain regions
to kind of verify that for yourself and
then tip number 10 was to always report
on brand versus non-brand separately
it's like and oranges make sure you're
looking at the campaign themes in
isolation because they are very unique
and then finally bonus tip was to
leverage location targeting and dive
deeper into the GEOS and understand your
performance by country I totally love
this tip because often times especially
from the US you're like oh Europe is
Europe you know and it sounds so
ignorant to say that but that's that's
the truth and on the flip side like
people who Target the us that are not
from the US they're like California is
the same as Florida and it's like no it
cannot be any more different and like
the same is true in the US like there
are certain states that probably perform
a lot better than other ones and there
might be an opportunity to create that
segmentation Davies this was awesome if
people want to connect with you where
can they find you LinkedIn just LinkedIn
awesome so go ahead and connect to
Davies on LinkedIn and if you guys are
looking for ad support definitely check
out Dar digital he is also helping SAS
companies so if you guys need help with
that check them out we'll plug that into
show notes Davies thank you so much for
being here everybody if you're not
subscrib already please do so and we'll
see you in the next episode take care